09/20/2012
Yesterday, Ofer and I met with Lucas.  We decided on a plan of how to proceed
with the butcherbird data.

Ofer summarized his idea of some statements we may want to express in a paper.

1. Using spike sorting we can classify elements.
2. We see that those elements are being reused across different phrases.    
3. We hav an alternative representation of what people are currently saying.
    
Typically people would say each bird has X phrase types.  We are saying 
the singing is more accurately represented as a number of elements that are
used to improvise phrases.  Indeed, when we look at phrases we don't find 
any regularity, but when we look at elements we see regularity in the fact 
that the distribution of the elements appears to be uniform.  This indicates
that there is memory.  This means that the bird has a mechanism of balancing
the distribution of elements within a performance consisting of several phrases.

Lucas offered that, given that we can support these statements, the next 
step would be to create a generative model.  However, he expressed doubt 
about working to heavily on the development of our own model.  He indicated
that others may easily come up with different models that produce the same 
result as ours.  The following debate about which model to choose may not be 
worth taking part in.

Ofer playing devil's advocate -- what will people say?
What are we rejecting?  A bigram model?

I suggested that the typical assumption that the bird has a collection of 
phrases could be highlighted from the beginning of the paper.  Subsequently 
it is interesting to show that a collection of phrases does not as efficiently
explain the sequence of the performance.  The elements appear to be more
useful for that.

There is a memory that is particular to the element and taking this memory 
into account is what explains the structure of the singing.

All you need to know is the frequency of those conditional distributions and
another factor which we call memory.

Ofer: Everyone knows that those birds don't sing randomly. So proving that will 
throw us out of the stairs.

Can we show that the phrases are more random that

Ofer: Everyone knows that the phrase is stereotyped and the phrase order is random. 

Lucas's homework:  Figure out that transition matrix for phrases.  See if
it's uniform.  As you look at it in time you get these more poisson like, 
irregular patterns.  

Markov matrix for phrases and next to it, the markov matrix for elements.

Lucas is puzzled by trying to establish a frequency of elements across phrases.
You are looking at it as though there is no structure in the phrase.  Does it
make sense to generate the across phrase probabilies using within phrase
probabilities.  Either us entirely within or entirely across phrases.

Ofer said: we should meet much more often.  And come with printed homework one for each of us.



